So let's go on to our next notebook where
we create a, so right now we've
only created five pedals and
the next step we want to make is create
a pedal for each of the 135 movies.
So thus far you might have noticed
that we've been binding our data to
existing DOM elements and
setting attributes and styles on them.
But we can't possibly go around
creating SVG elements for
every single data point
that we might have.
We're now going to copy and paste 135 path
elements into our HTML document or
anything.
And so here's how we're going
to go about it with d3 instead.
So let's go back to our kind of simple
data or simple bar chart that we
have before and
we have the same array of five numbers.
And we also have our SVG element with,
rectangle width,
the width is set the same way and
our height and
the difference is that now we don't have
our five rectangle elements anymore.
But, with this code,
we're rendering the same exact thing.
So how are we doing that?
Let's take a look.
So, here are the magic lines it
is select all the rectangles,
bind data.enter.append rectangles.
And let's break down those lines together.
So let's first take a look at select all
rectangles and we have this empty SVG.
So if there are no rectangles
elements in the SVG.
What are we even selecting?
And the answer is it's an empty selection.
So, then we might wonder,
how are those bars appearing?
And the way that they're appearing is,
first that we're again, binding data.
In this case, we are binding
our array of five numbers to this
empty selection of rectangles.
And so what d3 is doing in this .data
function is that it's going ahead and
calculating and figuring out that to
match our data,
we need to create five rectangle elements.
So that's the first thing that d3 does,
it says, for our data and
our DOM to sync up,
we need to create five rectangle elements.
And so this is what d3 returns .data,
you can see that there is the groups
that we've been looking at as before.
But interestingly enough
it is an empty selection.
So it says empty x 5 and if we look now
at this thing that's called _enter,
and it actually has
these five elements within it.
So what happens next is we call .enter and
what .enter does
is it basically just gonna plugs out
this array of the five, essentially
placeholder elements and these placeholder
elements, they're not DOM elements yet.
They're just placeholders but
they do you have the data bound on them.
And so .enter just says, okay,
let me just get that we call
this the enter selection all of
the elements that need to be created.
We call this the enter selection.
So let me get that array of all
the placeholders put that out, and
that's what .enter returns.
So what's happening is,
.enter is basically this
five rectangle placeholders with
the data already bound on them.
So this is what .enter returns and
if you look up in the _groups,
it's that kind of RT,
the placeholder elements that
we saw earlier in, In here.
And finally, with .append, we're saying,
okay, insert a rectangle
element in the DOM for
each of the placeholders that we have, and
each of these rectangle elements also
have the appropriate data bound on them.
And this is what that looks
like underneath groups.
Finally in the groups,
we have these SVG rectangle elements
with the data already bound.
And so this is one of the first
big I guess key concepts for
d3, this kind of .data, .enter, .append,
where we create DOM
elements based on the data.
I guess this is the the lightning
bolt key concepts,
the first one of the first key concepts,
which is that d3 stands for data
driven documents because we're letting our
data drive what is created in the DOM.
This is if you take nothing away today,
please take this one away.
In d3, we let the data drive
what's created in the DOM.
And some things to look out for again,
like kind of like places where I've had,
bugs come up and confusion come up.
So some key things to look out for
when we're entering and appending.
The first is that data
when we bind the data.
So right here when we bind the data,
the data that we pass in
when we're trying to create these
elements, it must be an array.
It cannot be an object,
it cannot be like a string or an integer.
It must be an array.
And it must be an array because
d3 needs to be able to know like
each element in this array will
get mapped to a DOM element.
So it must be an array.
If it's not an array d3 will like air out.
So thus far we've had the select all
be whatever the SVG element is,
whether it's select all rectangles or
select all paths.
But sometimes you want the selector in
your select all to be something else
because maybe in your DOM you now have
multiple different kinds of paths.
And some paths might
be doing one thing and
another set of paths
might be doing another.
So maybe you want to only
select a subset of these paths.
And so when you want to do that you might
want to select by the paths with like
specific class names or rectangles,
in this case, with the class name bar.
So if you do that, you must make
sure that the selector that you pass
into selectAll matches what gets appended.
So for example, if the selector is a class
name instead of that element tag, and
that class name is bar, then we must
append whatever we still append,
whatever SVG element,
in this case rectangle, but
we must then follow it up
with that .class bar is true.
And this is a d3 function that basically
sets the class name bar on our
newly created rectangle elements.
So, please keep these
two in mind cuz I think
these two are also places
where people might see bugs.
So very important.